Amoy Campbell

My project is a financial calculator that tells a user how much they would need to save to buy a certain item based on their current spending habits. The calculator will take the user’s monthly income and expenses and calculate the surplus. From that surplus the calculator will determine how much money they should save every month and how many months it takes for them to purchase the item. The minimum viable product will take the cost of an item put in and suggest how much the user needs to save per month to buy the item. A stretch goal would be using an API to find the costs of different luxury/ consumer products, that way the user would not have to input the cost it would already be found by the software. 
 
With this project I wanted to revisit iterations in depth to make a simpler financial calculator. Each function will require some kind of for loop or while statement to make sure the calculator works as intended. So the first goal would be to build upon what we learned in class to explore this topic. The second goal would be to add some design aspect to the website beyond what was taught. I want to refresh some of the css/html that i already know. This will require some researching and reading beforehand so that I have enough time to implement and debug. 
 
First I need to make a project outline with the main goals for each week. Setting aside a certain amount of hours per week to work on each part of the project will be helpful. Also planning those working hours around office hours so that I can ask any questions and get feedback before the project is due. After writing this proposal I will roughly outline all the functions and concepts needed to complete the project. 
 
In the first two weeks I want to work on developing the software because I am a lot more comfortable with coding the calculator. In the first week I plan on mocking up the functions and outlining what needs to be done. Then in the second week I want to code all the software starting with the function that will calculate the user’s surplus. To do this I need to determine what factors need to be input for the user's expenses (will it be a lump sum or individual expenses) and also what qualifies as income. Then I have to figure out a way to have the software to find the cost of the item whether that be through an API or user input. The easiest way would be to use input but the API could bring a lot more variety to the type of items and be more accurate. Also some things I could consider are whether to include taxes and fees (which would be where an API could come in). Then in the last two weeks I plan to work on website design and debugging. For the last assignment I struggled the most with using “get” and “post” to make the website work so I plan on spending more time on that. I also want the website to look nice so refreshing my css/html knowledge will be useful. .
 
The potential risks to this project would be the debugging process and actual code. Since I am working on the project by myself the success relies on my ability to actually produce the product with my knowledge. Generally the hardest part is any errors in the code and the debugging process. I find that this part delays the development of the software if the errors are not caught early. 
 
Having a quick crash course on html/css or just resources posted so I could learn more. In class we already discussed flask and how the commands work but maybe a quick refresher would be helpful. 
